Since I came into recovery I have become much more aware of how I am feeling from day to day. It's difficult to explain to people who don't have a gambling addiction exactly why you cannot just stop having a bet. There were stages when I would be able to stop on my own for a couple of weeks or even months but I would always go back and it would be worse than ever. And people who knew me knew that I had a problem, but I just wasn't ready to admit it to myself yet. To save myself from all the hassle and questioning from family and friends I would drive to towns or villages an hour or so away from where I lived just to have a bet. I would ignore phone calls from people that I felt would interfere with my Gambling. If I walked into a bookies and saw someone I knew I would just walk out. I wanted to be left alone. I didn't want anyone to get in the way of what I wanted to do. I became a very selfish person and was able to switch myself off from the rest of the world. Deep down I knew I shouldn't be there, but I just couldn't stop myself from going.
When I say that to someone that isn't a compulsive Gambler they find it hard to understand. That's why i get such identification from someone in a similar situation to me. When I share a story I know that someone else has the exact same story to tell. The place and time might not be the same but the outcome always is. And that is what gave me hope in the beginning. To know that I was not alone.

I could tell hundreds of stories about times I lost money in the bookies but the money wasn't the problem. I had myself convinced that if I won a large amount of money it would solve all my problems and that the feelings I had inside would disappear but that never happened. Even after a day of winning a huge sum of money all I wanted to do was go back and win more. I saved all of my money for gambling, it was the ammunition I needed to go to the bookies and it meant that I would rarely spend it on anything else. However, if I was after winning big and was going on a night out with my friends then I would be throwing money around as if I was the big shot and would pretend everything was OK. But it wasn't OK. The next day when everyone was getting back to living a normal life, I was hiding away in a bookies trying to win back the money I had just lost. And then of course there were the nights where I'd have no money and would have to borrow money from someone, or else just stay at home and feel sorry for myself wondering when was it all going to stop. My mother could see it in me. Some days she would confront me over it and I would spin a story about not getting paid or that I had lost my bank card. It was all lies. Some days I would get home and tear up my Bank card just so a new one would arrive in the post and my story would check out. She would often offer me money just to put a smile back on my face. I looked pale and sick from all the stress in my head. Then on Fridays when I got paid, more often than not I would have that money lost before I finished work that same day. I would go on my lunch break and come back an hour later with all my money gone. I would still have to go back and finish a days work, knowing I was going to have to go a full week without money again. It was so disheartening. It made it impossible for me to be productive in work and as a result that suffered too. Even the simplest of tasks seemed difficult to me, because although I was there physically, my mind was trying to conjure up ways of getting the money back. And there is no let up when you are in the addiction. On countless occasions I would have left the bookies penniless and screamed at myself when I got into the car for doing it again. The thought of crashing my car into a roundabout outside Rathangan where I worked entered my head on more than one occasion. I would speed through the town hoping my brakes would fail or that something would happen to just take the pain away. I would swear to myself that that was it, that I would never gamble again, but as soon as I got money again I was off to try and win it all back.

A lot of it would have been down to immaturity as well. I can recall in 2006 going on my lunch break one day and going to the bookies with €20. I placed 2 bets and walked out of there with €400. That's a weeks wages to a lot of people so how could it not look attractive to me. As a result I didn't want to live in the real world. Things like paying bills, taxing my car, normal things that normal people do felt irrelevant to me. I was going to make it big without any real effort. But nothing was ever enough and when I did win I just wanted to win more. I wanted a nice house and a nice car and didn't want to put in the hard work to get these things. I see now that these things aren't important at all but try telling me that 2 years ago. And for me work was the best way to get money to go gambling. That was all I used it for. I never tried to better myself or go above what was expected of me in my job. I was happy to just float along and do a weeks work, get paid and then the gambling would solve all my problems. It never happened.

When I came into recovery, it was suggested to me to give up alcohol for a year. The reason it was suggested is that most bookies are next door to a pub and if I was to get drunk and forget myself I could easily go in and place a bet and be back to square one. There was also the fear that I might replace one addiction with another. There was a chance I would stop gambling but then turn to alcohol if life got tough, instead of dealing with and talking about whatever problem might have arisen. If I'm honest I didn't want to give it up because I enjoy going out with my friends after games, but I knew I had to change things, so I wasn't going to argue. The week before I came into recovery I would have drank most days. I had taken a week off work and I knew the walls were coming in around me. I wanted it all to stop and needed somewhere to hide so just like I would go to a bookies to hide away from the world, I drank to try forget what was happening to me. But just like the gambling, the same problems were still there the very next day. It was an escape for me. People who know me will say that I wasn't  a big drinker, and I probably wasn't, but it scares me to think of that time because I know how my mind works and if I don't talk about a problem to someone I could very easily go back and look for something to ease the pain and make me not want to deal with it. I went 20 months without a drink and had a handful of drinks this summer. A couple of weeks ago I was out and had a few drinks with my friends. I woke up the next morning and felt good but as the day went on I felt more and more miserable and had no motivation to do anything. An easy option for me would have been to go and have a few drinks and cheer myself up and that's what my mind was telling me to. And that scares me. It didn't sit well with me so I'm after giving it up again. I wasted so many days over the years in bookies feeling miserable that I don't want to waste anymore.

And that is essentially for me what gambling does. It takes me away from having to deal with reality. I was not able to deal with any issues going on in my life. I ignored problems and as a result they got bigger and became even more difficult to handle. I have to be so careful around anything that takes my mind off reality. It's difficult sometimes but I just do things one day at a time and try and keep things as simple as possible.

I had to change a lot of things in my life when I came into recovery and a lot of it wasn't easy. Recovery is still a tough place to be and although the majority of my days are good, I still have my ups and downs. But the program teaches me ways to live with these ups and downs and come out the other side without having to hide away in a bookies or bury my feelings. It has thought me to be honest about things that are going on in my life today and for me that is huge. For years I was dishonest about a lot of things and it would eat away at me inside. If something is bothering me now, I share it at a meeting or tell someone I trust and that helps me deal with it.


A lot of people may not understand or relate to this. But for the people that can relate to it, you are the ones it was meant for. I hope it helps. 