It's a mad set up really. I'm sitting on a bus on the way to mullingar with the Offaly squad. We don't know what we are doing when we get there, it's a surprise. I like surprises, but not the run for 10 mile kind of surprises. But we will see what's in store when we get there. It's giving me some time to reflect. I received a phone call today from a man I would consider a good friend, even if he doesn't realise it. I've known him for many years but only really got to know him properly this last year. His message for me today was simple, take care and look after yourself.

But why did he say that? Why would he take time out of his day just to deliver that message? It has me feeling a bit uneasy. The last few days and weeks infact have been pretty full on. Since I wrote my first blog interest in me and my gambling addiction has risen again. I was in Dublin yesterday promoting the gpa's new mental health initiative and it was a great day. They are doing serious work to try and improve players lives off the pitch. But I need to be careful. I still need to protect myself. The perception is that because I have sought help and admitted I have a problem that all is rosy in the garden. If I for one second of one day take my eye off the ball I could be right back where I started, borrowing, begging for money to feed an addiction. Gambling plays no part in my life anymore but I still think about it everyday and where it brought me.

And this is a mad time of year too. People are mad busy in work trying to finish up for the Christmas. Everyone always gives out about getting older and time going by so fast, yet at Christmas everyone wants it that way just to have a few days off. A part of me loves it and another part of me hates it. It can be a very lonely time for a lot of people. I even found myself getting a little lonely for a few days after Christmas last year. I think it was the buzz and excitement had me on such a high that the preceding days were a bit of a low. But that's ok. I was ready for it. I'm very lucky in that I get to spend Christmas with my loving family and friends. I love being in a position to be able to buy them presents and share a bit of love and joy with them. Now don't get me wrong, buying the presents is a pain in the arse. Trying to think of what to get everyone is a nightmare. But all I can do is my best. Last year I gave my father a voucher for a sports shop and in return he gave me a voucher for the same sports shop, for the exact same amount. Sure we might as well not have got each other anything. I'm laughing here just thinking about it. But it's the thought that counts I suppose. I've gotten him a jumper this year, I don't even care if he reads this because he's probably got me the same thing anyway.

And I think that is what I love so much about life now. The most important thing to me is my family and friends. There was a time when I thought having money would make me happy but I know now it won't. It certainly is nice to be able to do certain things and have the money to pay for it but it's all pointless if you don't have anyone special to share those moments with. And that was a good lesson for me to learn. I'm by no means perfect and I still make mistakes but I think we all do at some stage and it's just a case of learning from them. The most any of us can do at any given time is our best.

I try to be the best son, brother, uncle, boyfriend, friend, teammate and employee as I can be. Some days I'm better at some than others but that's how life works. It can't always be on my terms so I have to adjust and make the most of it. I love getting out of bed in the mornings now because I have so much to look forward to, but it wouldn't be that way without the support of my friends and family and the people in my meetings. There was a time when I manipulated and cheated them in order to get things working in my favour. I forgot what was important and I thought all my problems would be solved with money. I'm lucky now that I don't really value money and I find I always have enough to do what I need to do.

 Everyday I pray to my grandparents that have passed away and I ask them to look after me. I don't pray for material things, I pray for direction. They never let me down. I pray to be the best person I can be on that particular day. I pray to be honest. When you're honest life is so much easier to live. I've told so many lies over the years trying to cover my tracks and it eats away at you. I was born and brought up to be a good person but events in my life sent me down the wrong path, one which I never thought I'd get off, but thankfully I did.

My battery died while I was writing this so it's now Thursday night and I'm just in the door from training. It was snowing, it was cold but it was a pleasure to be there. The man that rang me yesterday was there. I smiled when I saw him. I understand his message now. I'm no good to anyone unless I look after myself. When I suffer everyone close to me suffers, but when I look after myself everyone around me will feel the benefit.

I can't wait for the look on my friends and families faces when I give them there presents. It's a wonderful feeling. But the love I have for them will mean more. It's the greatest gift.